>> Maximiliano Firtman: The first thing
that we need is we need to on the back
end, we need to add a dependency, okay,
so we will use bcrypt is the most common
one that will have the hash functions
to quickly hash a password, okay.
Because doing that manually
doesn't make any sense.
So I need to go here now we probably
need to, I can stop the server.
Remember, we are using, in this case,
you can see all those messages
are coming from our logo.
I can control C, or
I can open a new terminal, whatever, and
I will get that particular library.
It's actually pretty quick.
Xan because I already have
it in my computer, but
at least now it's in my go.mod.
So there so I can start using it.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So the next step
will be actually to add the newest storage
is, let's remember what we have.
In fact, let's go back to our
architecture to see where we are.
So now, actually we have
fully created the diagram,
because now we have the API
service client side, the routers,
the router, the web components.
The user interface that
shows the front end is full,
yeah, there are still some more services
to add, and the back end is also ready.
So now we have the full circuit for
movies.
Now we need to add the full circuit for
accounts, account management.
So we need the model.
We need a model repository.
Remember, the model repository is the one
the storage that is actually talking to
the table.
The tables are already there.
But we need the repository.
The model, I think, is already there,
it's actually pretty simple,
just the model user.
Then we need the handlers for
every web service that we will use.
At least we need two web services,
registration and authentication,
also known as logging,
okay, register and logging.
We need two handlers that will handle
that, talking to the repository.
And then we will need to add the same
thing on the client side, so
we will need the web component for
each page, for the registration form,
for the login form, the routes,
then we will also need the HTML.
I don't know what happened, yeah, okay.
So let's start on the backend first,
and then when the backend is ready,
we will move to the frontend, okay?
Let's start with the model repository.
So to do that,
it's a huge storage actually.
It's not complicated, but brightening
from scratch, it may take an hour or so.
Okay, for registration and logging,
mostly if you want to do it right.
So because for example, registration, you
need to validate that the data is coming.
You need to validate
that the email is valid.
Then you don't want to
register the same user twice.
So you need to check, make a query and see
if the user is already in the system and
reject registration and then you need
to hash the password and then start.
Well, all of that, it's already there,
we will analyze it, okay.
But if you remember from before as
well we created in our back end,
this idea of making the storage agnostic,
so
in the future,
we may wanna change the database.
So that's why we had an interface,
remember.
By the way, I have just realized
that I have a typo here in the name,
and just for fun.
Will it make any
difference defining in Go?
No, really, so
that's why it never came until right
now to my brain that I have a typo.
It says interfaces, like interfaces,
it's not gonna make any difference, okay?
Because the Go works actually,
with the package name, okay?
And then with the things
that you are exporting with
capital letters the file name,
it doesn't matter,
okay, so we have movie storage.
So actually we need to create
now the the other part that
we can call account storage, that we
can also make like an interface, yes.
>> Student 1: Back to packages, really
quick, are there any names facing issues,
like can you call a package go, for
example, or is that can you not do that?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: There are,
there are some names that are keywords,
as in any language.
But actually for the package name,
I don't think I haven't tried to use Go,
I don't think you have a problem
to use Go, so you could use Go.
I don't see why not,
because Go is not really, actually,
Go is a keyword that you use for
go routines to use concurrency.
But I don't think it's gonna mess with the
package name, I'm not sure, to be honest.
I'm not sure why do you wanna do that,
okay?
Anyway, but maybe because you wanna
push the limits, which is fine.
But, yeah, I don't see a use case for
using go as a package name, but
you should be able to do that.
So what I want here,
I want one definition for
each service that I need
from the database, okay?
And then we implement that,
right now with PostgreSQL, but
remember that we can change
that later with other database.
We have them here, it's not a big deal.
I mean, I can write them or
copy and paste them.
It's not really a big deal.
So, we have authentication.
Authenticate that receives true strings,
email and
password, then registration
that has three strings because
it's right now we have only name,
email and password.
Get account details that we may use later
and save collection that we may use later.
What is site collection?
Save a favorite or save a watch list.
Okay, that receives a user and
in the we'll see the the arguments later.
I'm getting an error here with models
because, actually, we don't have the user.
It seems like if I go into models,
I don't have the user model.
So I need to create the user model.
So let's add it, so we need user.go.
This is package models, and
this is going to be pretty simple,
similar to this one, so
not really a big deal.
So type user, okay, it's a structure,
and then we have an ID integer.
It's a good idea to always, as we did
with movies, to add the meta data.
Remember, we use backtick,
then we use JSON colon, and
the name that in this case we
use in the database and in JSON.
So, what's called ID,
then we have name, string, JSON name,
and by the way,
do a spot any problems with that name?
In fact, VS code is finding a problem.
There is a warning here saying, hey.
>> Student 1: Not exported.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Not exported,
so use N.
That's why we are renaming this here,
because maybe in the JSON
we don't have the name.
If you don't do that, it will work, but
it will expect the database and
the output JSON to use N.
We have email.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And
password, but remember,
the password is not just a password,
it's a hash password.
It's just, I mean,
doesn't matter for the name.
Actually we can say password.
Let's stay with password only.
I'll explain why in a minute.
Because maybe in the model, we don't
know if it's still hash or not, so
maybe initially it's not hash,
and then we hash it.
It doesn't matter, okay,
so that's the user.
So now my interface works.
So interface is pretty good.
Also, it lets us quickly
understand what we need and
what we're expecting
from the implementation.
So for the implementation, we are going
to create an account repository.
So I have a movie repository.
I need to create an account repository.
You can also call it repository,
user repository.
And this is the one that is huge,
to be honest,
not extremely complicated, but huge,
you can see, okay, a lot of work.
It will take an hour or
maybe so to do it from zero.
So I will just take it there, paste it.
Maybe we need to solve some problems or
names that are different or
things like that, and
then we will analyze it, okay?
So let me first go through the errors.
Yeah, I was expecting password so
I change that,
okay, password, that's one issue.
Then user,
I didn't create the favorites and
I didn't create the collection,
yes, where in my model, okay?
So what's this type of dose?
What do you think?
It's movies.
>> Student 2: Is it Boolean?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Is it Boolean?
First, it should be a collection.
>> Student 3: It should be
a list of movies, okay.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So list,
yeah, we need to decide if we want
to use directly like this or
use IDs, okay?
We'll see, we will do this at the end.
So, but it's a watch list, but let's say,
but from a semantic point of view,
it's a slice of movies.
The slice is just an array
with a dynamic size, okay,
we don't know how many,
that's why it's a slice.
Okay, so now I'm, I don't have any errors.
I have a warning there on that string
that it has to do with the logging,
doesn't matter.
So now let's analyze the code.
But you will see it's simple to follow,
but
it takes a lot of time to write from
scratch, I know because I wrote it.
So first, we do have a structure.
Why the structure is not mandatory, but
it's a way to create
some kind of an object.
So create this,
we are creating this account
repository as if it were
an object in other language.
It's not mandatory, okay?
I could just create
functions from the package.
That are not methods of this structure and
it will work anyway.
I'm saving the database and
the logger, why?
Well, the database is straightforward.
We need the database to
talk to the database.
We don't want every repository
to initialize the database.
We are just reusing the same
database connection.
And the logger is to have always
a pointer to that util function that
I have to log my errors,
log my information, so then I can go and
see if something wrong has happened, okay.
This is the constructor, remember,
we don't have constructors in Go.
This is a factory, this is how you
will create a new account repository,
receiving the database and the logger.
This is a normal pattern in Go.
And then we start with the methods,
methods of account repository.
So register, that's the first one.
It receives email, name, email and
password as a string and
returns a bool and an error.
So the bool will be,
it's okay, or it's not okay.
Okay, that's kind of the idea for now.
First, we are validating
basic requirements.
There are a lot of other things
to do here to be honest,
this is a very basic requirement.
I'm just checking that, I do have some
data, but I should check if the email
looks like an email, if the name
has a minimum size and so on, okay.
So there are still more things to do here,
but
I wanna keep this course within size,
like a proper size.
So let's add more validation.
So if we are not passing the validation,
look at this,
I'm creating, this is a pretty common way.
I'm creating different constants for
different errors,
so then I know exactly
which error has happened.
So in this case, I'm returning with false,
so that bool, so
I'm saying, No,
we couldn't register the user.
And this is the error.
These errors, that are actually
at the bottom of the file.
That's a pretty common pattern where
I'm creating all these variables for
all the possible errors
that I might trigger, okay.
So going back, I'm sorry,
because I'm scrolling a lot here.
It's a long file.
So then I will check if the user
already exists by email,
that's our key here, okay?
So I'm making a query, and
I'm selecting if I have one user at
least with that email,
and if it already exists,
I'm sending a message saying,
hey, already exists.
Also we can have generic error
because maybe I couldn't make a query.
The database is complaining that
in that case it's a generic error.
I'm actually sending the error that
I'm getting from the database.
It's not my error, okay.
Then I'm hashing the password, actually,
it's pretty simple to hash the password
when you're using a library.
We call to that,
we call that Bcrypt library.
That's the one that we
added in our project.
We generate the hash from a password.
We pass the password instead of a string.
We need to pass bytes.
So that's how you would call one of these
conversion functions to a slice of byte.
And we use some options, so there are some
options that you can define here in
terms of cost, default, max or min.
This is the CPU cycles that you will use
to make a more like complicated hash or
a simpler hash, okay, something like that.
And well, if we fail, we do this.
Of course, we can do this quicker,
just by removing all these ifs
the premise that if we do that, okay.
If something goes wrong,
we will miss the moment of what happened,
and we will miss the opportunity to log
the problem and debug the problem, okay?
So that's why, when you have things like
registration or user authentication, it's
really long because we actually really
wanna spot on every possible problem.
And I'm saying every as kind of a dream,
at least as much problems as possible,
because there are always
more problems that may arise
that we didn't consider, okay.
Well, if everything is okay, we are going
to try to insert the new user, okay,
and of course, the database can complain,
so maybe it's not inserting that.
Finally, if everything is okay,
we will return true and
nil as an error, only on that
situation if we reach the end.